Welcome back in the previous steps we saw that with the introduction of micro services calling of
services becomes complex.
There are multiple call chains.
So the currency calculation service would call the currency exchange service and this would be intercepted
by an API gateway.
Sometimes we even use the API gateway before calling the currency calculation service.
Let's say there is a small defect.
This service is not really working fine and you would want to debug it.
How do you do that.
We'll look at the look at the currency calculation service do we look at the currency exchange service or
We'll look at the API gateway.
How do you find out where the defect is and how do I know what is happening in total with that specific
request.
One of the most important things with implementing a micro services architecture is we would need
to have something called distributed tracing.
I would want one place where I can go and see what happened with a specific request.
I would want to have one single centralized location where I can see the complete chain of what happened
with a specific request.
This is especially important because there are variety of components that are involved.
When we talk about the typical micro service architecture until now we looked at that different.
micro services we talked about API gateways we talked about naming server we talked about configuration
server.
I want n number of components are involved.
If you want to solve a problem and if you want to debug a problem through this you would need a centralized
kind of information.
And that's where this distributed tracing comes into picture.
There are a variety of options that are present for distributed tracing.
What we'll do in this section is to use something called Spring cloud sleuth with Zipkin.
One of the important things is to assign a unique ID to a request.
So let's say a request is going through a set of application components.
It's going through the API gateway to the currency calculation service.
Are going through the API gateway and the currency exchange service how do I identify that this request
is the same one the only way I can identify that is by assigning ID to this request and that's what
spring cloud sleuth.
So S L E U T H spring cloud sleuth would assign a unique ID to a request so that I can trace it
across.
Components zipkin is what we call a distributed tracing system.
What we would do is all the log from all these services we would put it in MQ we would use rabbitMQ.
And we would send it out to the zipkin server where it is consolidated.
And we would be able to look through the different requests and find what happened with the specific
request.
Don't worry this sounds complex in the next steps we would start with implementing spring cloud sleuth and after
that we would start implementing zipkin until then bye bye.